README.md, before:

# CHEM 4050/5050 — Computational Problem Solving in the Chemical Sciences (Fall 2025)

Homework submissions

## Homework 1
### Introduction to Python

- 1-1 Analyze the relationship between volume and pressure in a closed system
- 1-2 Explore the Computational Chemistry Comparison and Benchmark Database (CCCBDB) to retrieve molecular geometry
- 1-grad Time-independent Schrödinger equation for a particle in a one-dimensional box

## Homework 2
### Using Numerical Methods in Python

- 2-1 Optimize the geometry of argon dimers and trimers using the Lennard-Jones potential
- 2-2 Numerical integration of virial coefficients
- 2-grad Time-independent Schrödinger equation for harmonic and anharmonic oscillators in one dimension

## Homework 3
### Statistics, Regressions, and Correlations

- 3-1 Trouton’s rule, regression, and uncertainty analysis
- 3-grad Model the relationship between enthalpy of vaporization and boiling points of various substances

## Homework 4
### Introduction to Molecular Simulation

- 4-1 Computational work of thermodynamics
- 4-2 Thermodynamic properties of Ce(3+)
- 4-grad Temperature of dimers using the Lennard-Jones potential

## Homework 5
### Monte Carlo Simulations

- 5-1 Overlap integration of two hydrogen 2p orbitals
- 5-2 Diagonal and off-diagonal kinetic energy matrix elements between two hydrogen 1s orbitals

## Project 1
### Grand Canonical Monte Carlo Simulations of Competitive Adsorption

## Project 2
### Polymer Chain Molecular Dynamics

---

All files were executed in a Microconda environment (v25.9.1) with Python.
Important packages are NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas.

Commit message:

Enhance README with Polymer Chain details
Added details about simulation parameters and folder contents for Polymer Chain Molecular Dynamics.

README.md, after:

# CHEM 4050/5050 — Computational Problem Solving in the Chemical Sciences (Fall 2025)

Homework submissions

## Homework 1
### Introduction to Python

- 1-1 Analyze the relationship between volume and pressure in a closed system
- 1-2 Explore the Computational Chemistry Comparison and Benchmark Database (CCCBDB) to retrieve molecular geometry
- 1-grad Time-independent Schrödinger equation for a particle in a one-dimensional box

## Homework 2
### Using Numerical Methods in Python

- 2-1 Optimize the geometry of argon dimers and trimers using the Lennard-Jones potential
- 2-2 Numerical integration of virial coefficients
- 2-grad Time-independent Schrödinger equation for harmonic and anharmonic oscillators in one dimension

## Homework 3
### Statistics, Regressions, and Correlations

- 3-1 Trouton’s rule, regression, and uncertainty analysis
- 3-grad Model the relationship between enthalpy of vaporization and boiling points of various substances

## Homework 4
### Introduction to Molecular Simulation

- 4-1 Computational work of thermodynamics
- 4-2 Thermodynamic properties of Ce(3+)
- 4-grad Temperature of dimers using the Lennard-Jones potential

## Homework 5
### Monte Carlo Simulations

- 5-1 Overlap integration of two hydrogen 2p orbitals
- 5-2 Diagonal and off-diagonal kinetic energy matrix elements between two hydrogen 1s orbitals

## Project 1
### Grand Canonical Monte Carlo Simulations of Competitive Adsorption

## Project 2
### Polymer Chain Molecular Dynamics
#### all paramaters are set up as k=5, epslion repusive = .25 and number of monmers = 25 unless files says otherwise
##### end to end folder
- has the plots for the polymer with parmaters of epsilion repulsion equal to .25, .5, and .75 along with spring constant 5, 25, and 50, and finally, the polymer chain length of 20, 25, 30, and 50, and its corespoiinding derivatives plots.
##### Initial velocities folder
- has the plots for the polymer with parmaters of epsilion repulsion equal to .25, .5, and .75 along with spring constant 5, 25, and 50, and finally, the polymer chain length of 20, 25, 30, and 50.
##### radius of gyration folder
- has the plots for the polymer with parmaters of epsilion repulsion equal to .25, .5, and .75 along with spring constant 5, 25, and 50, and finally, the polymer chain length of 20, 25, 30, and 50.
##### potential energy folder 
- has the plots for the polymer with parmaters of epsilion repulsion equal to .25, .5, and .75 along with spring constant 5, 25, and 50, and finally, the polymer chain length of 20, 25, 30, and 50, and its corespoinding derivatives plots

---

All files were executed in a Microconda environment (v25.9.1) with Python.
Important packages are NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas.
